<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
	<title>The Bear</title>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
	<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
		<h2>The Bear</h2>
		<p class="stage-direction">A drawing room in Popova’s country house.</p>
		
		<p class="stage-direction">Popova in deep mourning, with her eyes fixed on a photograph. Luka is brushing his master's clothes.</p>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Luka</p>
			<p>It’s not right, ma’am... You are simply destroying yourself. The cook is weeping, the chambermaid is weeping, even the cats are crying in the yard! You haven't stepped outside in months, and you barely touch your food. This is no way to live!</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Popova</p>
			<p><span class="stage-direction">(Sighing deeply.)</span> I shall never go out into the world again, Luka. My life is over. He lies in his grave, and I have buried myself within these four walls. We are both dead to the world.</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Luka</p>
			<p>There you go again! Your late husband is dead, God rest his soul, but you must keep living! You cannot stay a widow forever. You are young, beautiful, and full of life—surely there are plenty of fine gentlemen in the province who would dream of winning your hand!</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Popova</p>
			<p><span class="stage-direction">(Striking the table.)</span> Never speak of that to me again! When Nikolai Mihailovich died, I vowed to remain faithful to him until my own death. I know it’s no secret to you, Luka, that he was often cruel, unfaithful, and left me alone for weeks. But I will prove to him what true loyalty means. My ghost will blush in front of his portrait, but I will keep my word.</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Luka</p>
			<p>Oh, ma’am, what are you saying? Instead of making such vows, you should listen to me: tell them to harness Toby or Giant, and let’s go out for a drive in the fresh air! Or go visit the neighbors. The regiment is stationed just nearby, and the officers there—why, they are absolute darlings! You should see them dance!</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Popova</p>
			<p>Luka, please! I love Nikolai Mihailovich even beyond the grave, and no other man shall ever interest me. Go to the stables and tell them to give Toby an extra portion of oats today. Nikolai always loved him so...</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Luka</p>
			<p>Yes, ma’am, right away... <span class="stage-direction">(A loud, aggressive ringing is heard at the entrance gate.)</span> Good heavens! What a dreadful racket! Who could that be knocking so early?</p>
		</div>

		<div class="dialogue">
			<p class="speaker">Popova</p>
			<p>Go and see who it is. Remember, Luka, I am not receiving any visitors. Absolutely no one!</p>
		</div>
	</section>
</body>
</html>
